There's something about like visual
media that really excites people. That
it's like the fun thing, but it's not
just fun, it's exciting.
It's intuitive. The visual space is so
much of how we as humans experience
experience life that I think I've loved
how much it's
moved people. I think we're really now
making it possible to like tell stories
that you never could. And in a way we're
like the camera allowed anyone to
capture reality when it became very
accessible. You're kind of capturing
people's imagination. Like you're giving
them the tools to be able to like get
the stuff that's in their brain out on
paper visually in a way that they just
couldn't before because they didn't have
the tools or they didn't have the
knowledge of the tools. Like that's been
really awesome.
[Music]
Today we're talking with Nicole
Brightova and Hanja Srinivasan, the team
behind Google's Nano Banana image model,
which started as a 2:00 a.m. code name
and has become a cultural phenomenon
since.
They walk us through the technical leaps
that made single image character
consistency possible.
How high quality data, long multimodal
context windows, and disciplined human
evals enabled reliable character
consistency from a single photo.
And why craft and infrastructure matter
as much as scale.
We discuss the tradeoffs between pushing
the frontier versus broad accessibility
and where this technology is headed.
Multimodal creation, personalized
learning, and specialized UIs that marry
fine-grain control with hands-off
automation.
Finally, we'll touch on what's still
missing for true AGI and white space
where startups should be building now.
Enjoy the show.
[Music]
Nicole and Hanja, thank you so much for
joining us today. We're so excited to be
here to chat a little bit more about
Nano Banana, which has taken the world
by storm. We thought we'd start off with
a fun question. What have been some of
your own personal creations using Nano
Banana or some of the most creative
things you've seen from the community?
Yeah, so I think um for me one of the
most exciting things I've been seeing is
like the
I I it didn't occur to me, but this is
very obvious in hindsight is um the use
with video models to get actually
consistent cross-scene
you know, character and scene
preservation. Um cuz
>> is that workflow today? How hard is it
to do that? So, what I've been seeing is
people are really
mixing the tools and using different
video models from different sources. And
so I think it's probably not very fluid.
I know some There's some products out
there that are trying to like integrate
with multiple models to make this more
fluid, but I think the
the difference in the the videos I've
been seeing from before and after the
Nano Banana launch has been pretty
pretty remarkable. And it's like much
much smoother and much more like what
you'd want in the video creating process
with scene cuts that feel natural. Yeah.
So that's been cool. Um and I don't know
why it didn't totally occur to me that
people would immediately do that, but
yeah.
One of my favorite ways that I didn't
expect is how people have hacked around
the model to use it for learning new
things or digesting information. I met
somebody last week who has been using it
to create sketch notes of these like
varied topics. And it's surprising
because text rendering is not something
that it's not where we want it to be,
but this person has hacked around like
these massive problems that like get the
model to output something that's
coherent. And um he's used it to try to
understand the work that his father's
doing. He's like a chemist at a
university and it's like super technical
topic. And so he's been feeding his
lectures to Gemini with Nano Banana and
then getting these sketch notes that are
like very coherent and like visually
digestible. And for the first time I
think in like decades they've been able
to have a conversation with each other
about his dad's work. And that was
really fun. Um and something that I
didn't see coming. That's very cool.
>> I think people are really working
around, you know, like this model is
amazing, but obviously it's it's not
perfect. We have a lot of things we want
to improve and I think I've been
astounded by the ways people have found
to to work with the model in ways we
didn't anticipate and give inputs to the
models in ways we didn't anticipate to
bring out the best performance
um and unlock these things that are kind
of mind-blowing. Did you guys in the
building of it
was there a moment like an aha moment
where you kind of felt wow, this thing's
going to be pretty good. We just talked
about this.
>> Yeah, I think Nicole had the aha moment.
I had one where So we always have an
internal demo where we play with the
models as we're developing them. And I
had one where I just took an image of
myself and then I said like, hey, put me
on the red carpet. And like full gl just
total vanity prompt, right? And then it
came out and it looked like me. And then
I compared it to like all the models
that we had before. Um and no other
model actually looked like me and I was
like so excited. Wow. Um and then people
looked and they were like, okay, yeah,
we get it. Like you're on the red
carpet.
And and then I think it took a couple of
weeks of other people being able to take
their own photos and play with it and
just kind of realize how magical that is
when you get it to work. And that's kind
of the main thing that people have been
actually doing with the model, right?
Turning yourself into a 3D figurine.
Um where it's like you want a computer,
you want a toy box, and then you as the
figurine. So like you three times. Um
like that way to be able to kind of like
express yourself and see yourself in new
ways and almost kind of like enhance
your own identity has just been really
fun. And that for me was the like, oh
man, this is awesome. What was it about
what Nano Banana did with you on the red
carpet that was miles better than what
everyone else has? It looked like me. Um
and it's very um it's very difficult for
you to be able to judge character
consistency on people's faces you don't
know. Yeah. Um and so if I saw, you
know, a version of you that's like an AI
version of you, I might be okay with it,
but you would say like, oh no, that's
you know, like parts of my face are not
quite right. And you can really only do
it on yourself, which is why we now have
evals on many team members where it's
like their own faces and they're looking
at the models' output with their own
faces on it because it's really the only
way that you can judge whether or not
someone looks like you.
>> Yourself and like faces you're familiar
with. I think like when we started doing
it on ourselves and it's like I see
Nicole a lot. So like
Nicole versus like random person we
might eval on, right? It's it's just a
very big difference in the terms of
judging the model's capabilities.
Yeah, I think it's one of those things
that it's like so fun that preservation
of the identity is so fundamental to
these models actually being useful and
exciting, but is
you know, surprisingly
tricky. Uh and that's why we see a lot
of other models not quite hitting it.
>> Well, I I I was going to ask you. I I
would imagine that character consistency
is not just an emergent property of
scale. And so may maybe two questions.
One, I'm sure there's stuff you can't
tell us, but what can you tell us about
how you achieved it? And then two, was
that an explicit goal heading into the
development of this model? Yeah, so I
would say I mean, yeah, I think there's
definitely things that are tricky to say
here, but I I would say um there's like
sort of different genres of ways to do
image generation.
Um and so that so that plays that
definitely plays a part uh
in how good it is. Um and I think it was
definitely a goal from the beginning. It
was it was definitely a goal because we
knew it was a gap with the models that
we released in the past. Um and
generally consistency for us was a goal
because every time you're editing
images, right? So like you want to
preserve some parts of it and then you
want to change something. And prior
models just weren't very good at that.
And that makes it not very useful in
professional workflows, but it also
doesn't make it useful for things like
character consistency. And we've heard
this for years from even advertisers who
are, you know, trying to advertise their
products and like putting them in
lifestyle shots. It has to look like
your product like 100% otherwise you
can't put it in an ad. Um so we knew
there was demand for it. We knew the
models had a gap. Um and we felt like we
had the right recipe both in terms of
like the model architecture and the data
to finally make it happen. I think what
surprised us was just how good it was
when we actually finally built the
model.
>> Yeah, right. Cuz like I think we felt
like we had the recipe exactly as Nicole
said, but there's still always until
you're seeing the model you finished
training you
you're actually using it. You don't know
how close you're going to get, right? To
that goal. And I think we were all
surprised by that.
Um yeah, and I think the other thing is
if we think about like what people
expect out of editing when that you edit
on your phone apps or like Photoshop,
you expect a high degree of preservation
of things you're not touching. Yeah. And
depending on how the models are made and
how how
the design decisions behind them
that's very tricky to do. But it's
something people
really like it's it's one of those
things where like
it's shockingly technically difficult
even though it's something I think a
layperson who's using the models would
be expected to be like the basic thing
about editing. It's like you don't mess
with the things you don't want to be
messed with. Yeah. Back to that moment
where you saw yourself on the red carpet
and wow, that's actually me.
And it took some of your colleagues a
couple weeks to have the same experience
because they tried it with their own
photos.
The question is beyond hey, that's
actually me, that you know, the quality
of the test.
Is there some sort of an eval that you
can put against that to make it
quantitative that, you know, we have
achieved the thing that we set out to
achieve here? Yeah, so I actually think
I think face consistency exactly for the
reason Nicole said is is quite hard.
It's quite hard for other people to do.
Yeah. Um I will say in general I think
what we found with image generation in
particular that's unlocked a lot for us
is like human evals are important. Um
and so I think they're a foundational we
have we have a a team that works on
helping us build sort of good tooling
and good practices for evals and
having humans actually eval these things
um that are very subtle. Like if you
think about image generation like
faces, aesthetic quality, these are
things that are very hard to quantify.
Um, and so I think human evals have been
a main a big game changer for us.
I think it's definitely I think it's a
combination of there's human evals,
there is very technical term eyeballing.
Um, of the model results by different
people. Um, and there's also just
community testing. And when we do
community testing, we start internally
and we have artists um at Google and at
Google DeepMind to play with these
models. Our execs will play with these
models. Um, and that really helps I
think kind of build that qualitative
narrative around like why is this model
actually awesome? Um, cuz if you just
look at the quantitative benchmarks, you
could say like oh it's 10% better than
this model that we had before. And that
doesn't quite grok that emotional aspect
of like oh I can now see myself in new
ways or I can now finally edit this
family photo that I cut up when I was 5
years old.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, and I probably shouldn't have.
People have done that. Um, when that
happened I like I'm able to restore it.
Like I think you really need that
qualitative um user feedback in order to
be able to like tell that emotional
story.
>> I think this is probably true of many of
the the gen AI and AI capabilities, but
I think it's especially true of
visual media where it's very subjective.
Versus if you think about something like
math, reasoning, logic reasoning where
like you can you can really ground it in
an answer, right? Um, and so it's more
easy to have these very objective
automated, you know, quantitative evals.
To get to that level of character
consistency from just one 2D image of of
someone is really really hard. Can you
walk us through maybe a little bit what
are the technical breakthroughs that
helped you drive to that level of
character consistency that we actually
haven't seen anywhere else?
I mean I think a key thing is like
having good data
that teaches the models to generalize,
right? And the fact that this this is a
base it's a Gemini model. Yeah. It's
it's
a multimodal foundational model that's
had seen a lot of data and has good
generalization capabilities and I think
that like that's kind of the secret
sauce, right? It's like you really need
uh models that generalize well Yeah.
>> able to take advantage of that for this,
right?
>> Yeah, and I think the other nice part
about doing this in a model like Gemini
is that you also get this like really
long context window. So like yes, you
can provide one image of yourself, but
you can also provide multiple. And then
on the output side, you can also iterate
across multiple turns and actually have
a conversation with the model, which
wasn't possible before, right?
1 2 years ago, we were fine-tuning on 10
images of you and it took 20 minutes to
actually get something that looked like
you. And that's why it never took um it
never took off in the mainstream, right?
Because it's It's just too hard.
>> Um, and you don't have that many images
of yourself. It's like too much work.
Um, and so I think it's both kind of the
like general like Gemini gets better,
you benefit from that in multimodal
context window, and you benefit from the
like long output and ability to like
maintain context over a long
conversation. And then you also benefit
from the like actually paying attention
to the data, focusing on the problem. A
lot of the things we get better at come
down to there's a person on the team
who's like obsessed with making them
work. Like we have people on the team
who are obsessed with text rendering.
Yeah. And so our text rendering just
keeps getting better because that person
just like is obsessed with the problem.
>> Yeah, it's like it's not just about
throwing high
quantities of data in, right? I think
that's one thing that's really important
is it's there's this like attention to
detail
um
and quality of, you know, all the things
you're doing with the model. There's a
lot of there's a lot of small design
decisions and decision points at every
point. And uh
I think that like detail orientedness of
high quality is data and selections are
really important.
>> Yeah.
It's the craft part of I think that I
would we don't talk about a lot, but I
think it's super important.
>> Yeah. How big was the team that worked
on it? To ship it, it took a village.
Yeah, cuz especially cuz we switch ship
across many products. So I think like
there's like sort of the core sort of
modeling team and then there's, you
know, our close collaborators across
like all the surfaces. Yeah.
>> When you put them all together, you
easily get into like dozens and
hundreds, but um the team who works on
the model is much smaller. And then the
people who actually make all the magic
happen. Um, we had a lot of
infrastructure teams like optimizing
every part of the stack to be able to
serve the demand that we were seeing,
which was really awesome. Um, but really
like to ship it we we're joking that it
takes like a small country. When you
build something like this, do you build
it with particular personas or
particular use cases in mind or do you
build it more
with a capability first mindset and then
once the capabilities emerge, you can
map it to personas? It's a little bit of
both, I would say. Like before we start
training any new model, we kind of have
an idea of what we want the capabilities
to be.
Um, and some design decisions like um
how fast is it at inference time, right?
They also impact which persona you're
going after.
>> Yeah.
>> So this model, because it's kind of a
conversational editor, we wanted it to
be really snappy cuz you can't really
have a conversation with a model if it
takes like a minute or two to generate.
That's really nice about image models
versus video models. Like you just don't
have to wait that long.
>> Mhm. And so to us from the beginning it
felt like a very consumer-centric
model. Um, but obviously we also have
developer products and enterprise
products and all of these capabilities
end up being useful to them. But really
we've seen a ton of excitement on the
consumer side in a way that I think we
haven't before um with our image models
um because it was very snappy and it
kind of made these like pro-level
capabilities just really easily
accessible through a text prompt. Um,
and so that's kind of how we started it
out, but then obviously it ends up being
useful in other Um. in other domains as
well. Yeah, and I think one of the like
differences in philosophy, so like
previously we'd worked on the Imagine
line of models, which were straight
image generation. And I think one of the
like
big philosophical goal changes in these
Gemini image generation models is
generalization. Yeah. Like a more
foundational capability. So I think
there is also a lot of like there's
there's things where like
we want this model to be able to be good
at this like
representing people and letting them
edit their images and have it look like
themselves. But I think there's also a
lot of things like
that are are emergent from the goal of
just having a baseline capable model
that like reasons about visual
information. Like I think one thing
that's surprised me I guess is a call
back to your earlier conversation people
can put in math problems. Like a drawing
of a math problem and like ask it to
like render the solution, right? So like
you can put in a geometry problem and
say like what is this angle? And that's
that's like an emergent thing of like a
foundationally capable model that has
both like
reasoning, mathematical understanding,
and visual understanding. So it's I I
think it's there's it's both. Yeah. Can
you maybe share I just out of curiosity,
what's a good way to understand maybe
the family mapping and the relationship
between Gemini powering Nano Banana,
Vio, you know, all these other
adjacent products and models that are
all driven and benefit from the
generalization and the scale of Gemini
itself. Um, how you co-develop and then
where you want to take it from here? Um
our goal has always been to build the
single most powerful model that can do
all these things, right? You can take in
any modality and you can transform it
into any modality. Um, and that's the
North Star. We're obviously not quite
there yet. And so on the way there, we
had a lot of sort of specialized models
that just got you great results in a
specific domain. So Imagine was an
example of that for image generation.
Vio is an example of that for video
generation um and editing.
Um, and so I think we're we're both kind
of developing these models to push the
frontier of that modality and you get
really useful outputs out of that,
right? A lot of filmmakers are using Vio
in their creative process.
Um, but you're also learning a lot that
you can then bring back into Gemini and
then make it good at that modality.
Image is always a little bit I think
ahead of the curve because you just have
one frame, right? It's it's cheaper um
both train and at inference time. Um, so
I think kind of a lot of the
developments you see in
in image I expect you to see in video
like 6 12 months down the line.
Um, and so that that's always kind of
been the goal. And so we have separate
teams kind of developing these. And then
I think with image we're now moving
closer um to Gemini
um and to that vision of that single
most powerful model. Um, and you will
see that I think with some of the other
modalities. And along the way we'll
release these experiences that are just
like really powerful and like really
exciting in that modality. So like Vio 3
was really awesome because it brought
audio into video generation, right? In a
way that we haven't seen before. Genie 3
was really awesome because it lets you
in real time kind of navigate a world.
Um, and so in order to push that
frontier, it's very hard to like do all
of that at the same time right now in
one model. Um, and so to some extent
these specialized models are kind of a
testing ground, but I would expect that
like over time, you know, Gemini should
be able to do all these things. Oh,
that's so interesting.
Okay, we got to ask you about the name.
Ah. I suspect that the name was a bit of
a It's an amazing product. I suspect
that the name gave it a little bit of a
boost
cuz it's so easy to remember and so
distinct. So was it a happy accident or
is there some creative genius who knew
that this is going to be just the right
name? It was a happy accident.
So, I think as many people know the
model went out on N L M Arena where many
models do and you part of that is you
give a code name if anyone hasn't used L
M Arena you get to put in your prompt
you'll get back two responses from two
models they have code names until
they're
publicly released
and I think it was like
we had to someone we were going out at
like 2:00 a.m. and Nicole Nicole's our
wonderful PM there's another PM we have
Nina and someone messaged her being like
what do we name it? And she was really
tired and exhausted and she was like
this was the name of stroke of genius
that came to her at 2:00 a.m. This is
you? It was not me. It was somebody on
my team
who named who named the model I can't
take credit for this.
>> Another one of our PMs. Um but what was
really awesome is like A it was really
fun. I think that really helps that it's
easy to pronounce. It has an emoji which
is critical for branding. She didn't
overthink it.
>> And this area but she didn't overthink
it and what was awesome is everybody
just went with it once it went live and
and I think it just like felt very
Googley and very organic and it ended up
looking like the stroke of marketing
genius.
But no it was it was a happy accident
and it just sort of worked out and
people loved it and so we leaned into it
and now there's you know bananas
everywhere when you go into the Gemini
app
which we did because people were
complaining that they were having a
really hard time finding the model when
they came into the app. Yeah. Um and so
we just made it easier.
>> Yeah. And
yeah exactly. I think there's like
publicly people are like nano banana
nano banana. How do I use nano banana? I
had someone at Google I work with
be like how do I use nano banana? I was
like
it's Gemini.
It's right there.
Just just ask for an image.
Yeah but I think that's the thing is
like I think Google's always had this
really fun brand right? Like it's like
it's not like
it's been a consumer oriented company at
its inception and like
I think it was really nice to to play on
that
that image people have of like Google as
a fun
fun place fun company
and have this fun name. It's also just
like a really nice path to find being
kind of a gateway to utility right? I I
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I
I I I I I I I I I I I I Um not just with
the naming but also just like with the
products that we build cuz it kind of
gets people in gets them excited and
then it helps them discover other things
that you know the models are awesome at.
>> Yeah. I think other users like my my
like my parents and their friends are
using it. I think it's cuz they like had
this reputation it was really easy it
was really fun it felt unintimidating to
try.
And you try it and you're like actually
this this is very easy to work.
This works very easily it's very easy to
interact with there's no like technolo
there's no like you know technology I
think can sometimes
be intimidating to people especially AI
right now. Yeah. Um and I think the
chatbot naturalness has broken a lot of
that barriers but maybe more so with
younger people. Yeah. And I think this
like fun like
yeah my mom like made
was like making these images and having
great time and and and
then realized she can use it to like
remove people from the background of her
images like these very practical things
right? Started very silly turned very
practical then people can use it to
realize like actually they can give you
them diagrams or help them understand
stuff so
think there's also like a big
accessibility component. Yeah.
Where do you want to take from here
maybe both from a model side and from a
product side? On the product side I
think there's
kind of a couple areas like on the
consumer side I still think we have a
long way to go to just like make these
things easier to use right?
You will notice that a lot of the nano
banana prompts are like 100 words long
and people actually go in and copy paste
them into the Gemini app and like go
through the work to make it work cuz the
payoff is worth it.
But I think we have to get past this
prompt engineering phase for consumers
and just like make things really easy
for them to use.
I think on the professional side
we need to get into like much more
precise control kind of robustness like
reproducibility
to make it useful in actual professional
workflows right? So like yes we you know
we're very good at editing consistency
and not changing pixels but we're not
100% there. And when you're a
professional you need to be 100% there
right? Like you really need kind of
these precise maybe even like gesture
based controls like over every single
pixel in the frame.
So we definitely need to go in that
direction. And then I think there's like
a general direction that I'm really
excited about which is just about
visualizing information. Um so the
example I had about sketch notes at the
beginning and somebody kind of hacking
their way around using nano banana for
that use case
you could just imagine being able to do
that for anything right? And a lot of
people are visual learners. I think we
haven't really exhausted the potential
of LLMs to be able to like help you
digest and visualize information in
whatever way is most natural for you to
consume right? So sometimes it's a
diagram sometimes it's an image and
sometimes maybe it's a short video
right? That you want to to learn about
some concept that you're learning in a
biology class or something like that. So
I think that's like a completely new
domain that I'm really excited about
just these models getting better and
getting past the point where you know
95% of the outputs that you get out of
these models are just text which is
useful but it's it's not how we consume
information in the real world right now.
It's really interesting. So on the
product side then are you alluding to
the fact that you might want to
vertically integrate and build a little
bit more product around it and and also
are you alluding to the fact that maybe
the way you interact with some of these
models isn't just through pure language
and prompting over time but more UI?
Yeah. Yeah I definitely I definitely
think the chatbots I think are an easy
entry point for people because you don't
have to learn a UI new UI you just talk
to it and then you say whatever you want
to do right? I think it starts to become
a little bit limiting for the visual
modalities and I think there's a ton of
headroom to think about like what is the
new visual creation canvas for the
future
and how do you build that in a way that
doesn't become overwhelming right?
Because as these models can do more and
more things it's very hard to explain to
the user in something that's very
open-ended like what the constraints are
and like how do you work around that and
like how do you actually use it in a
productive way? So I'm really excited
about people kind of building products
in those directions.
And for us you know we have a team
called Labs
at Google that's led by Josh Woodward
and they do a lot of this kind of like
frontier thinking experimentation. They
work with us really closely where they
take our frontier models and they think
about like what's the future of
entertainment what's the future of
creation what's the future of
productivity.
And so they've built products like
Notebook LM and Flow on the video side
and I'm excited that maybe Flow could
kind of become this place where you
could do you know some of this creation
and think about what that looks like in
the future. I think in the short term
it's it's very clear that you know this
model has things that it's not perfect
that
and so in the short term it's obviously
it should work the way you expect it to
every time not just a lot of the time
and really make it so slim seamless.
Uh
and and fix all these like small small
things where it's just like a little bit
inconsistent in its performance.
I think long term it's
I think Nicole covered that which is to
me it's in order to have
that reality of really
rich multimodal generation. So like
right now if you ask Gemini to explain
something
it'll usually just explain in text text
unless you ask it for images. But if you
think about like the platforms that have
really taken off in the last like
10 20 years for learning right? Like
we think of like Khan Academy started on
YouTube. We think about like
Wikipedia has a lot of images like it's
very image focused if you look up any
math thing you like diagrams. And so
like that should become more like
a natural part of the flow and a part of
the way you use these models. And to
enable that from a modeling point of
view it's it goes back to like
like we're talking about this this
multimodal understanding and seamless
generalization between modalities. Um
Maybe the other interesting area as we
think about kind of you know these
models being more proactive at pulling
in you know whether it's code or images
or video when it's appropriate for the
user intend. I think this other exciting
area I I started out as a consultant
in my career and so obviously I made a
lot of slide decks in my time. I still
do.
And I think there are some of these use
cases where you don't actually really
want to be in the weeds of creation like
what you really want is let's say you're
updating your stakeholders on how a
project is going right? You want to pull
in some context maybe it's meeting notes
maybe it's a couple of bullet points
maybe it's you know some other deck that
you've created in the past.
And then you maybe just want Gemini to
go off and like do all the work for you
right? Like pull that deck together
format it create appropriate visuals to
make it really easy to digest. And
that's something that you probably don't
want to be involved in and it gets more
into these agentic behaviors versus I
think for some of these creative
workflows like you actually want to be
creating you want to be in the weeds you
want to think about what the UI looks
like that makes it easy for a user to
accomplish the goal. And so like if I'm
designing my house and I'm actually into
designing my house
Um I probably actually want to play with
it and like play with textures and
different colors and like maybe what
would happen if I remove this wall. And
so I think there's kind of this spectrum
of like very hands-off, like just let
the model go off and like pull in
relevant visuals, materials for a task
that makes sense, all the way to like
how do you actually make a creative
process like more fun and remove the
tedious parts and remove the technical
barriers that exist today with tools
that we have.
>> mix of giving the user fine-grain
control, like the precision control they
want, but also at the other extreme
having the model be able to
understand
the user request and anticipate, right?
Like the need and the outcome that it
should be and do all the intervening
work in between. Yeah. It's almost like
when you actually hire a professional
for something today, right? Like when
you hire a designer, you give them a
spec and then they go off and then they
do all that awesome work that they do
because they have all this expertise.
And so the amount these models should be
able to do that and they can't really do
that in many domains today. Hm. What do
you think the next competitive
battleground is in this world?
I think there's still work to be done on
making these models more capable. And so
this idea of having a single model that
can take anything and transform it into
anything else, I think nobody has really
figured that out. Um but I do think in
order to actually drive adoption,
there's probably two things. One is user
interfaces. Like we still rely very
heavily on the chatbots and we talked
about this like it's useful for some
things and it's a great entry point.
But it maybe isn't useful for all the
things. And so I think starting to think
about much more deeply about who are the
users, what are they trying to do, how
can the technology be helpful, and then
what product do you build around it to
make that happen? Um is probably one. Do
you think 5 or 10 years from now the
frontier will be advancing as quickly as
it has advanced over these last few
years? 5 to 10 years from now feels like
20 years from now.
And and it's just this space and you
guys probably see this too, like the
space is moving really quickly. And you
know, if you asked me 2 years ago, I
would have told you the space is moving
really quickly. If you asked me today, I
will tell you it's moving faster than it
was 2 years ago. Okay, I'm going to ask
you a very different question.
[Laughter]
Um
So, um I know Google's very
uh very sort of careful and very
concerned about deep fakes and and that
sort of thing. Um and I have to imagine
when you saw how capable this model was,
there's a big conversation about okay,
well, how are we going to make sure
people don't use it in the wrong sorts
of ways? How did that How does that sort
of a conversation go inside of Google?
And are you guys
sort of like happy with where it ended
up? I think it's an ever-evolving
frontier also. Um because it's this mix
of
you want to give people the creative
freedom to be able to use these tools,
right? And you want to give users
control to be able to use these tools in
a way that don't feel overly
restrictive. And you want to prevent the
worst harm, right? I think that's always
the the balance that we spend a lot of
time talking about. Um and so obviously
when you look at the outputs of the
model, there's a visible watermark that
says it's been generated with Gemini, so
that immediately indicates that it's AI
content. Um and then we also in every
output that we uh produce with our
models, image, video, um
you know, audio, there's SynthID
embedded, which is invisible
watermarking. Um and so those are kind
of the the visible ways or and invisible
ways in which we verify that a content
is AI generated. Um we're very invested
in it and you know, we believe that it
is really important um to give users
those tools to be able to understand
that when they're seeing something, it's
not it's not a real video or it's not a
real image. Um
and then obviously when we develop these
models, we do a ton of testing um
internally and um also with external
partners to kind of find as the models
get more capable, you find new attack
vectors, right? And like new new new
ways that you have to mitigate for. Um
and so that is like a very important
part of model development for us and um
we continue to invest in it as as the
models get better and as there's new new
things that you can do with them, we
also have to develop kind of new
mitigations for, you know, making sure
that we don't create harm, but also
still give users the creativity and the
control um in order to make these models
usable in a product. I mean, I think
it's a very very hard balance to to
strike, right? Um
cuz
you'll always have people using a tool
in good faith. You'll also always have
people using it in bad faith. Um
And I think
I think it's hard. It's like is it a is
it a tool? Is it something that has
responsibility?
So, I think we we take this very
seriously. Um
Users obviously are also responsible for
what they do with the model, but SynthID
really is an important technology that
lets us like release these capabilities
to people and have have some faith in
that we can still verify, right? And and
have a tool to to combat this misin- the
the risk of misinformation. Um
but it it it's a it's it's a super
tricky conversation and I think it's one
that I've seen everyone take very
seriously. Um there's a lot of
a lot of conversations about how to
balance both.
Is that the standard now across the
industry? SynthID?
>> SynthID, yeah. It's a Google standard.
>> It's the Google standard. I believe
there's like every Google like imagine,
the imagine line, Veo, they all have
SynthID when you use them in any product
surface. Interesting. All right, you
told us we can't go 5 to 10 years down
the road because things are moving too
fast. We'll go
1 to 3 years down the road. Thank you.
Um
Two questions. One,
uh
what will be possible that we can only
dream about today?
And two,
what will the resulting change be to the
way that we all live our lives?
I really hope that a year or two from
now, you could really get
like personalized tutors, personalized
textbooks in a way, right?
>> Yeah. Like I there's no reason why you
and I should be learning from the same
textbook if we have different learning
styles and different starting points,
but that's what we do now, right? That's
how our learning environment is set up.
And I think across all these
breakthroughs, like that should be very
possible where you have an LLM tutor
that just figures out your learning
style, what are the things you like?
Maybe you're into basketball and so I
need to explain physics to you with
basketball analogies, right? Um and so
I'm really excited about learning just
becoming way more personalized and that
feels that feels very achievable. And we
obviously have to make sure that we
don't hallucinate and there's like a
high bar for factuality. Um and so we
need to ground in sort of real-world
content, but that I'm really excited
about. Um and that really I think just
it removes a lot of barriers for people,
right? It to to your question of like
what the impact is going to be. Um I
think it just becomes much more it
becomes much easier to learn basically
anything in a way that's very tailored
to you that you just can't do right now.
Could that be a Google product surface?
Somebody should look into it.
Yeah, and I think for the way it'll
change
how we live and work, I think I think we
I think working on these technologies,
I've already seen how it changes the way
we work, right? Because we we obviously
use them um
a lot. Uh I'm getting married. We made
our save the dates with our with our
model. Um and
so I what I really think we'll see is
and and just work. The amount part of I
think the reason that the innovation has
accelerated is we have these models. You
have like code assistants. You have
uh just like you can use models to like
filter things, to analyze huge amounts
of data, like
it's drastically increased our own
workflows. Like what I can do this year
versus 2 years ago is just like an order
of magnitude more work.
And I think that's that's true of the
tech industry. It's not true of a lot of
other industries just because that
integration into their workflows or into
their tooling hasn't happened.
I so I I think you know, some people are
like, "Oh,
it's going to it's going to replace me."
But at least what I've seen is it it it
really just actually changes the amount
of work an individual can get done. What
that means like for businesses or
economically, I'm not sure, but I think
it means we'll just see people be more
empowered to hopefully do more in the
same amount of time. Like maybe you
don't have to you know, I have friends
who were in consulting and spent a lot
of time they're like, "I should spend a
lot of time like 2 hours making slides,
tweaking Moving logos around.
>> individual moving logos around." And
like hopefully they won't have to do
that. They can actually spend time
thinking about what the content of the
slides like should be, thinking working
with clients. Um
and I think that that's hopefully what
we will see in like 1 to 2 years.
Given the trajectory that you see in
these capabilities, are there
interesting areas that you think
startups should go do that Google itself
might not get into?
I think there's a ton of spaces even
just in the creative tools. Like I I
think there's a ton of room for people
to figure out like what what do these
UIs of the future look like? Like what
is the creative control? How do you
bring everything together? We see a lot
of people in the creative field work
across LLMs, image, video, and music in
a way where they have to go to four
separate tools to be able to do that. A
lot of people ideate in with LLMs,
right? Like give me some concepts, like
here's an idea that I have. Once you're
happy with that, you take it to an image
model, you start to think about where
are the key frames that I want to have
in my video, you spend a lot of time
iterating there. Then you take it to a
video model, which is yet another
surface. And then at some point you want
to have sound and music and mix it all
together. And then you actually want to
do maybe some heavy-handed editing and
you go to some of the traditional um
software tools. That feels like these
kind of workflow-based tools are
probably going to spin up for a lot of
different verticals. So, creative
activity is just one example of it, but
you know, maybe there might be one for
consultants so that you can more
efficiently make slide decks and
presentation and pitch decks to clients.
Um and so I think there's a there's a
lot of opportunity there um that, you
know, some some of the big companies may
not go into.
Yeah. There's a lot of like, "How do we
make this technology useful for
X workflow, right?" Like, sales, finance
like
I'm saying a lot of things I don't know
about in companies like financial
workflows, but I imagine there's like a
lot of tasks that could be automated,
could be made much more efficient.
Um and I think startups are in a good
position to really like go understand
the specific client use case need, that
niche need.
And and do that application layer,
right? Versus what we really focus on is
the fundamental technology.
Um I think I'm just really excited
by the number of people who've been
excited
by this model. Yeah. If that makes
sense. Like
a lot of people in my life like a lot of
aunts, uncles, my parents, like friends,
like they've used chatbots. They ask it
things, they get information. My mom
loves to ask chatbots health about
health information. But there's
something about like visual media that
really excites people that it's like the
fun thing, but it's not just fun, it's
exciting.
It's intuitive.
The visual space is so much of how we as
humans experience
experience life that I think I've loved
how much it's
moved people. Like emotionally, in
excitement-wise, like I think that's
been the most exciting part of this for
me. My kids love it. Yeah. He
my my 3-year-old son tied our dog leash,
which is this like frame, you know,
brown rope like over himself so he
looked like a warrior. I took a picture
of him and turned him into this like
warrior superhero. Yeah, exactly. It
makes him feel superhuman. Yeah. And my
husband will read So he used Google
storybook to to read him these stories
about lessons that he learned in school,
you know, if he if there was like an
incident on the playground with another
kid or adjusting to a new school. And
it's made I mean, it's made these
characters that look like him and my
husband and me and our dog and our and
our daughter
in in these fun stories and lessons that
we're trying to teach him to the
personalization that you talked about.
So, I really really love this future.
It's it's going to be totally different
for him growing up. And and and it's
awesome, right? Because this is a story
for, you know, one or five people that
you would have never had made, right?
Like and and other people probably don't
want to read it. I would love to if you
want to read
Um but I I think we're really now making
it possible to like tell stories that
you never could and in a way where like
the camera allowed anyone to capture
reality when it became very accessible,
you're kind of capturing people's
imagination. Like you're giving them the
tools to be able to like get the stuff
that's in their brain out on paper
visually in a way that they just
couldn't before because they didn't have
the tools or they didn't have the
knowledge of the tools. Like that's been
really awesome. That's a nice way to put
it.
Thank you so much.
>> Thank you for having us. It was awesome
to have you.
[Music]